In the last lecture you'll learn how to set the objective for your Facebook campaign.
And we did that in the campaign level of our ads create tool here.
Now in this video we're moving now and into the onset level.
And you'll remember this is the place for you to find the audience for your art your placements where
you try to peer the budgets and these shared tools.
And this video I'm going to show you how to start defining the audience for your god.
We're going to look at the first five ways that you can do that by location age gender language and
demographics.
And I'm also going to show you some really cool tips so you can get this done really quickly and do
it very accurately as well.
And a lot of people don't think about this when they're creating their ads.
So let's dive straight into it.
Now we're really moving down to the audience section here.
And I think before you start to mess around with this and start to put in locations and anything like
that one good place to start looking at here is the fuel gauge which is over on the right hand side
here.
Now I would even recommend you write down this number right now which is potential reach so I can see
this is two point nine million people and based on the targeting options that I have in place right
now that's that's what the ad is going to reach potentially reach a 2.9 million people.
Now you'll see a that it says that my audience selection is fairly broad so we will want to narrow it
down.
And that's the purpose of these targeting options to make it more specific and to get it down to a smaller
audience size so that our fans are appearing only in front of people who we think are going to care
about it and who are going to click through or damaged or up or whatever the objective is that you have
said for your campaign.
If we do that well if be targeting Well we're going to minimize or wasted and spend.
Going to get a lot more results out of our budget.
So it's a really important thing to do.
So let's dive straight into it.
Then the first way that you can target your heart is by location.
And actually this is the only targeting option that is required in order for your Facebook to go live
right now that you can see.
You can see here that for my example it is targeted to Arland and up came up by default because that's
where I'm am right now.
So we can see and understand already that we can target Aransas by country but we can also target are
ads in much more specific ways.
So for example I can put in here the city that I'm in Dublin so watch this gauge now 2.9 million dropping
off to 1.4 million.
So if I had a business that was restricted to a certain area or serve a certain area well then a good
idea to narrow it down to that area.
You can not only do it by city like this but you can also put in maybe a neighborhood as well so here's
a neighborhood within the city.
And I can see now that it's come up as a radius format and this could be ideal if you're a big business
that has the catchment area and everyone to narrow it down and that and I can also see that I can reduce
is even more down to 10 miles at a minimum and I can see the change in the fuel gauge there.
A good.
So location targeting is really the starting point.
It's key and this is going to be different depending on the type of business that you have if you have
an online business and or fly off line business etc. These targeting options are going to vary to suit
your needs.
Now moving down here we have the age and really demographics skew the option here to put in the age
range of the people that you want to show your ad to.
And this is going to be something that it once again is going to be dependent on the type of business
that you have.
Now remember those Facebook and Instagram policies.
So if for example you are advertising an alcohol product or have any of that content on the restricted
content list well then you have to follow those same guidelines as you set up your ad here.
Gender then you can select all male or female on languages you can enter the language that you want
to include here.
So I'm just going to pop in English you ass on down here even further again you have an extra option
to really get into more demographics so let's click this down here and you can see that you can target
people not only by their gender and their age and their language but also say by their education the
level of education that they have at their life events so if they're getting married away from their
hometown if it's their birthday coming down again we can see if they're you know new parents at their
political side that they're on the work that they're in in terms of being employed or industries or
job titles et cetera their relationship status.
And this is often why people who get newly engaged will see all these ads that wedding venues etc. I'm
sure you've heard the stories from your friends where they really commented on the ads that pop up once
a life event happens so you can see that there really are a ton of targeting options there.
Now I know personally it can be a little bit overwhelming there's so many options where would you even
get started.
So I wanted to give you some advice on how to think about this.
What I would recommend is that you try to imagine your ideal customer what they look like who would
really be the poster boy for your product.
Even the blog post that you're writing for them that's really going to get a lot of value out of this.
And so if you have no data right now just imagine that and fill the details out with that one person
in mind or a group of people.
Now if you do have data I'm going to show you a really cool trick taken to this.
So if you have a Facebook page why I recommend you do at this stage is come to your Facebook page.
Coming to insights here and you'll notice Dan on the side bar here that you actually have a section
called people.
And here you have the exact information that you need to put into your Facebook card.
So if you want to reach people who are already like your existing Facebook fans then this is information
that you can use.
And if you are creating these ads for a client or you're working in a business and you need to create
these ads and this is a great resource and source of information that you can use.
So for me personally I can see that there is a 60 40 split split between men so men are more interested
in the type of content I'm putting out for both sexes.
We have more people in the 25 to 35 age range interested in what I'm putting out there.
So that's very interesting to note.
And also I can see the talk country for me is the U.S. I also see top cities on language is English.
So this is the exact information that I need to be putting into my head here in terms of defining my
audience and the first step.
So if you have that information available to you I would recommend you do that if your art is going
to be related to where you're sending people to.
So to remind you my objective was to get people to my Web site.
This is the Facebook page related to that Web site.
So obviously this dataset is going to be very good for me to look at now as well as that.
Another great source of information that you can look at is Google Analytics.
And once again this is the analytics of the Web site that I intend to send people to through this Facebook
Ad.
So again a very accurate source of information.
Now to access this data if you're not familiar with Google Analytics you can come into audience here
and essentially it's going to be very very similar.
You can come down to demographics you can see the overview here and actually there is a very similar
place in Maine and female what we saw on the Facebook page so 60:40 more or less same age range which
is great to see good confirmation of that.
And if we come to the G.O. report here we can actually look at the language of people.
So English us top on once again no real surprises there.
And in terms of location then once again I can see the hot location is the U.S. with other English speaking
countries following up.
And I can also see in terms of the cities here which are the big ones.
So what I would suggest is if you do have this data available I'd open this up as you are filling out
your card.
If you work at a company make sure you get access to that or you're working for a client.
Try to get access to that before you start to fill out this information.
And if you don't have this information now.
Well I would recommend that you gather that information set up your Google and your Facebook page so
that you can fill that in for later campaigns.
So I'm going to take a minute to fill this out.
Now for myself and for my what I'm going to do is just put it forward the top country I'm going to put
it for that age range and then I saw 25 to 34 this down here I'm going to stick it just for males for
the moment because I want to try and get it as specific as prob as possible.
I am going to put it is English us and for the moment I'm just going to leave the life events and other
demographic options off.
But what I would recommend that you do is to go ahead think about that.
Use that date if you have it and start to define your audience based on location age gender and languages
and demographics and keep an eye on how the changes that you make impact the fuel gauge over here.
Now you can see for me this has gone up massively because I'm targeting a much bigger country.
But as we go through the remaining targeting options you're going to see this narrow down a lot.
So that is how you get started defining your primary audience.
Go ahead and do that now.
I will be finding this in the next videos as well.